---
title: FDO's conduct enforcement actions regarding Vaxry
date: 2024-04-09
---

freedesktop(.org), aka FDO, recently banned Hyprland maintainer Vaxry from the
FDO community, and in response Vaxry has taken his case to the court of public
opinion, publishing their email exchanges and writing about it on his blog.

It saddens me to bear witness to these events today. I wrote [in September of
last year][0] about problems with toxicity in the Hyprland community. I
initially reached out to Vaxry to discuss these problems in private in February
of last year. I failed to get through to him, leading to that blog post in
September. I spent some time in the following weeks talking with Vaxry on his
behavior and his community's social norms, again in private, but again, I was
unable to get through to him. Unfortunately, we find ourselves again leaving the
private sphere and discussing Vaxry's behavior and the problem posed by the
Hyprland community once again.

[0]: https://drewdevault.com/2023/09/17/Hyprland-toxicity.html

The fact of the matter is that Hyprland remains a toxic community, enabled and
encouraged by its toxic leadership, namely Vaxry. FDO's decision to ban Vaxry is
ultimately a consequence of Vaxry's behavior, and because he has elected to
appeal his case in public, I am compelled to address his behavior in public. I
hereby rise firmly in defense of FDO's decision.

I invite you to start by reading the two email threads, [one][1], and [two][2],
which Vaxry has published for your consideration, as well as Vaxry's follow-ups
on his blog, [one][3], and [two][4].

[1]: https://web.archive.org/web/20250306212807/https://blog.vaxry.net/resource/articleFDO/RHMails.pdf
[2]: https://web.archive.org/web/20240412194128/https://blog.vaxry.net/resource/articleFDO/lyudeReply.pdf
[3]: https://blog.vaxry.net/articles/2024-fdo-and-redhat
[4]: https://blog.vaxry.net/articles/2024-fdo-and-redhat2

Here's my read on the situation.

The FDO officer that reached out to Vaxry did it after Vaxry's problematic
behavior was brought to her attention by members of the FDO community, and was
acting on her mandate within the FDO conduct enforcement board by investigating
complaints submitted to her by this community. It is not a stretch to suggest a
close relationship between these communities exists: FDO is the steward of both
the Wayland protocol and implementation and the wlroots library, essential
dependencies of Hyprland and sources for collaboration between Hyprland and FDO.
Vaxry and other members of the Hyprland community had already participated
extensively in these projects (mainly in discussions on IRC and GitLab issues)
at the time of the email exchange, in spaces where the code of conduct applies.

The FDO officer duly investigated the complaints she had received and found, in
collaboration with the other members of the FDO conduct enforcement team, that
they were credible, and worrying. There are numerous examples of behavior from
Vaxry that contravenes the FDO code of conduct in several different respects,
and any number of them would be grounds for an immediate ban. Since these
behaviors are concerning, but did not take place in the FDO community, the
conduct board decided to issue a warning in private, stating that if this sort
of behavior was seen in the FDO community that it would result in enforcement
action from the conduct team.

All of the actions from the FDO conduct team are reasonable and show
considerable restraint. Vaxry could have taken it in stride with no consequences
to himself. Instead, he immediately escalated the situation. He construes the
FDO officer's polite and well-reasoned warning as threats and intimidation. He
minimizes examples of his own hate speech by shrugging them off as a joke. He
belittles the FDO officer and builds a straw man wherein her email is an
official statement on behalf of RedHat, and cites a conspiracy theory about
<abbr title="diversity, equity, and inclusion">DEI</abbr> programs at RedHat as
justification for calling the FDO officer a hypocrite. He is insulted on my
behalf that my name was cited in the FDO officer's email in lowercase, "drew",
and feels the need to address this.

The FDO officer responds to Vaxry's unhinged rant with a sarcastic quip
clarifying that it was indeed within the FDO conduct team's remit to ban Vaxry
from their GitLab instance -- I confess that in my view this was somewhat
unprofessional, though I can easily sympathize with the FDO officer given the
context. Following this, Vaxry states that Hyprland will cease all communication
with FDO's conduct team and _ignore_ (emphasis his) any future emails from them.
Finally, he threatens legal action (on what basis is unclear) and signs the
email.

Regardless of how you feel about the conduct team issuing a private warning to
Vaxry on the basis of activities outside of FDO community spaces, the email
thread that ensues most certainly is within the scope of the FDO code of
conduct, and Vaxry's behavior therein is sufficient justification for a ban from
the FDO community as far as I'm concerned. The conduct team cites Vaxry's stated
intention to ignore any future conduct interventions as the ultimate reason for
the ban, which I find entirely reasonable on FDO's part. I have banned people
for far less than this, and I stand by it.

Vaxry's follow-up blog posts only serve to underscore this point. First of all,
he immediately opens with a dog-whistle calling for the reader to harass the FDO
officer in question: "I don't condone harassing this person, but here is their
full name, employer and contact details":

> I do not condone any hateful messages sent towards any of the parties
> mentioned.
>
> Recently I have received an email filled with threats to my inbox, from a
> member of the X.org board, Freedesktop.org, and a Red Hat employee. Their name
> is [redacted].

Moreover, Vaxry claims to have apologised for his past conduct, which is not
true. In lieu of an apology, Vaxry has spent the "1.5 years" since the last
incident posting angry rants on his blog calling out minority representation and
"social justice warriors" in light of his perceived persecution. Meanwhile the
Hyprland community remains a toxic place, welcoming hate, bullying, and
harassment, but now prohibiting all "political" speech, which in practice means
any discussion of LGBTQ topics, though this is largely unenforced. In the end,
the Hyprland community's fundamental problem is that they're all "just having
fun", and it seems that they can't have "fun" unless it's at someone else's
expense.

The FDO team is right that Hyprland's community reflects poorly on the Linux
desktop community as a whole. Vaxry has created a foothold for hate,
transphobia, homophobia, bullying, and harassment in the Linux desktop
community. We are right to take action to correct this problem.

Every option other than banning Vaxry has been exhausted over the past year and
a half. I personally spent several weeks following my last blog post on the
matter discussing Vaxry's behavior in confidence and helping him understand how
to improve, and at my suggestion he joined a private community of positive male
role models to discuss these issues in a private and empathetic space. After a
few weeks of these private discussions, the last thing he said to me was "I do
believe there could be arguments to sway my opinion towards genocide".[^1]

[^1]: Yes, this is taken out of context. But, if you raise this objection, I
    struggle to imagine in what context you think this statement can be read
    sympathetically.

There's nothing left to do but to build a fence around Hyprland and protect the
rest of the community from them. I know that there's a lot of good people who
use and contribute to Hyprland, and I'm sorry for those of you who are affected
by this problem. But, in the end, actions have consequences. The rest of the
community has no choice but to sanction Vaxry.

And, to Vaxry -- I know you're reading this -- there are going to continue to be
consequences for your actions, but it's still not too late to change. I know
it's humiliating to be called out like this, and I really would rather not have
had to do so. FDO is probably not the last time you're going to be banned if you
don't change course, and it would reflect better on you if you took it on the
chin and didn't post inflammatory rants on your blog -- trust me, you don't look
like the good guy here. You are trapped in an echo chamber of hate, anger, and
bigotry. I hope that you find a way out, and that someday you can build a
community which is as great as your software is.

And, to the FDO officer in question: I'm so sorry that you're at the ass end of
all of this hate and abuse. You don't deserve any of it. You did a good job, and
I'm proud of you and the rest of the FDO conduct team. If you need any support,
someone to talk to, don't hesitate to reach out and ask, on IRC, Matrix, email,
whatever. Don't read the comments.

And on that note, I condemn in the harshest terms the response from communities
like /r/linux on the subject. The vile harassment and hate directed at the FDO
officer in question is obscene and completely unjustifiable. I don't care what
window manager or desktop environment you use -- this kind of behavior is
completely uncalled for. I expect better.

---

*P.S. The Hyprland community has already descended on me before even publishing
this post, after I called Vaxry out on Mastodon a few hours ago. My
notifications are not full of reasonable objections to my complaints, but
instead the response is slurs and death threats. This only serves to prove my
characterization of the Hyprland community as deeply toxic.*
