---
title: A Firefox addon for putting prices into perspective
date: 2025-04-04
---

I had a fun idea for a small project this weekend, and so I quickly put it
together over the couple of days. The result is [Price Perspective][amo].

[amo]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/price-perspective/

Humor me: have you ever bought something, considered the price, and wondered how
that price would look to someone else? Someone in the developing world, or a
billionaire, or just your friend in Australia? In other words, can we develop an
intuition for [purchasing power](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purchasing_power)?

The Price Perspective add-on answers these questions. Let's consider an example:
my income is sufficient to buy myself a delivery pizza for dinner without a
second thought. How much work does it take for someone in Afghanistan to buy the
same pizza? I can fire up Price Perspective to check:

![](https://redacted.moe/f/7e13a09b.png)

The results are pretty shocking.

How about another example: say I'm looking to buy a house in the Netherlands. I
fire up funda.nl and look at a few places in Amsterdam. After a few minutes
wondering if I'll ever be in an economic position to actually *afford* any of
these homes (and speculating on if that day will come before or after I have
spent this much money on rent over my lifetime), I wonder what these prices look
like from the other side. Let's see what it'd take for the Zuck to buy this
apartment I fancy:

![](https://redacted.moe/f/37ddbe71.png)

Well... that's depressing. Let's experiment with Price Perspective to see what
it would take to make a dent in Zuck's wallet. Let's add some zeroes.

<video src="https://redacted.moe/f/2752d5bc.webm" autoplay loop muted controls></video>

So, Zuckerberg over-bidding this apartment to the tune of €6.5B would cost him a
proportion of his annual income which is comparable to me buying it for €5,000.

How about the reverse? How long would I have to work to buy, say, Jeff Bezos's
new mansion?

![](https://redacted.moe/f/608ace06.png)

Yep. That level of wealth inequality is a sign of a totally normal, healthy,
well-functioning society.

Curious to try it out for yourself? Get Price Perspective from
[addons.mozilla.org][amo], tell it where you live and how much money you make in
a year, and develop your own sense of perspective.
