---
date: 2025-09-17
title: A better future for JavaScript that won't happen
---

In the wake of [the largest supply-chain attack in history][0], the JavaScript
community could have a moment of reckoning and decide: never again. As the panic
and shame subsides, after compromised developers finish re-provisioning their
workstations and rotating their keys, the ecosystem might re-orient itself
towards solving the fundamental flaws that allowed this to happen.

[0]: https://www.ox.security/blog/npm-2-0-hack-40-npm-packages-hit-in-major-supply-chain-attack/

After all, people have been sounding the alarm [for years][1] that this approach
to dependency management is [reckless][2] and [dangerous][3] and broken by
design. Maybe this is the moment when the JavaScript ecosystem begins to
understand the importance and urgency of this problem, and begins its course
correction. It could leave behind its sprawling dependency trees full of
micro-libraries, establish software distribution based on relationships of
trust, and incorporate the decades of research and innovation established by
more serious dependency management systems.

[1]: https://drewdevault.com/2019/12/09/Developers-shouldnt-distribute.html
[2]: https://drewdevault.com/2021/09/27/Let-distros-do-their-job.html
[3]: https://drewdevault.com/2022/05/12/Supply-chain-when-will-we-learn.html

Perhaps Google and Mozilla, leaders in JavaScript standards and implementations,
will start developing a real standard library for JavaScript, which makes
micro-dependencies like left-pad a thing of the past. This could be combined
with a consolidation of efforts, merging micro-libraries into larger packages
with a more coherent and holistic scope and purpose, which prune their own
dependency trees in turn.

This could be the moment where npm comes to terms with its broken design, and
with a well-funded effort (recall that, ultimately, npm is GitHub is Microsoft,
market cap $3 trillion USD), will develop and roll out the next generation of
package management for JavaScript. It could incorporate the practices developed
and proven in Linux distributions, which rarely suffer from these sorts of
attacks, by de-coupling development from packaging and distribution,
establishing package maintainers who assemble and distribute curated collections
of software libraries. By introducing universal signatures for packages of
executable code, smaller channels and webs of trust, reproducible builds, and
the many other straightforward, obvious techniques used by responsible package
managers.

Maybe other languages that depend on this broken dependency management model,
like Cargo, PyPI, RubyGems, and many more, are watching this incident and know
that the very same crisis looms in their future. Maybe they will change course,
too, before the inevitable.

Imagine if other large corporations who depend on and profit from this massive
pile of recklessly organized software committed their money and resources to it,
through putting their engineers to the task of fixing these problems, through
coming together to establish and implement new standards, through direct funding
of their dependencies and by distributing money through institutions like NLNet,
ushering in an era of responsible, sustainable, and secure software development.

This would be a good future, but it's not the future that lies in wait for us.
The future will be more of the same. Expect symbolic gestures -- mandatory 2FA
will be rolled out in more places, certainly, and the big players will write off
meager donations in the name of "OSS security and resilience" in their marketing
budgets.

No one will learn their lesson. This has been happening for decades and no one
has learned anything from it yet. This is the defining hubris of this generation
of software development.
